In this tutorial, we will create a service that will be responsible for shooting our NPC.
Go to the class creation wizard. We inherit from BTService. We call our class STUFireService.
Click on create class.
In order not to waste time on retyping things we know, I created a class constructor,
created a property where the key with the enemy actor will be located and also the function for updating the TickNode service.
Included all the header files that we need.
Named our service Fire and prepared the TickNode function.
Let's go into it and first, let's understand whether it makes sense to shoot at all.
To do this, we create a local boolean variable called HasAim. We have a goal if and only if the
Blackboard component is not null and also when the object that is located
in the Blackboard under the EnemyActor key is not null. We will place the service in the attack sequence, so on the one hand,
this check is not needed, because we already have a decorator that checks the given key,
but it is always better to make the class self-sufficient so as not to depend on any external conditions.
Further, if the controller is not nullptr, we can get the weapon component from the pawn that the controller owns.
And if the weapon component exists,
then we use the ternary operator, check the HasAim flag. If there is a target, then we start shooting, if there is no target, then we finish.
The StartFire function will be called with some frequency because it is in the tick function.
In the case of a rifle, we set a timer and there is nothing wrong with that, because as soon as
we call the StartFire function again, our old timer is simply reinitialized with a new call.
The service is ready. It's simple enough, but we need to tweak one point in BaseWeapon.
In the GetPlayerViewpoint function, we call the controller function, also called GetPlayerViewpoint.
This function is in the PlayerController class, it does not exist in the AIController class.
In the case of NPCs, GetPlayerViewpoint will return false, because GetPlayerController will return nullptr.
Let's change this function a bit.
Let's create a variable called STUCharacter. We make a cast of the pointer, which the GetOwner function returns.
If the object is null, then we return false, and if not, then we can check if this character is controlled by
artificial intelligence or a live player. For this, the character has a special
function called IsPlayerControlled. It returns the corresponding bool value.
Therefore, if the character is controlled by the player, then we simply use the code that we have already written.
Let's move it under the if.
And if the character is controlled by artificial intelligence, then we will simply shoot in the direction from the muzzle.
Variable ViewLocation assign the value of the position of our muzzle. To do this, call the GetMuzzleWorldLocation function.
And in ViewRotation, write the value returned by the GetSocketRotation mesh function.
And we pass the name of the socket MuzzleSocketName as a parameter to the function.
Let's compile the project and see how it works.
First, in the AI ​​controller we will change the NPC's vision settings, set sight radius = 2000
loose sight = 2500 and the angle of view 90. Let's slightly improve its performance.
FIreService, we can add a selector to the node. Everything will work just as well, because
we have a check for the enemy actor. But it is more logical that this service does not receive tick when we are not undergoing an attack.
Therefore, we add FireService to the attack node. Install EnemyActorKey.
The spacing can be left at the default.
And let's see how it all looks for us.
The behavior tree window will be open. Place it on the right as usual. We start the game.
The NPC saw us right away, starts shooting and kills us. The first death from an NPC in our course.
Let's run it again. Let's try to escape from him. All he does not see us. There is no shooting. Let's run out.
As soon as we are noticed, the shooting starts, and it starts a little earlier,
because we have an animation of the NPC's rotation with a certain rotation rate.
If desired, this can also be corrected, but we will not dwell on this.